# csuy2214-project-1-p0-solved
**TO GET THIS SOLUTION VISIT:** [CSUY2214 Project 1 P0 Solved](https://www.ankitcodinghub.com/product/cs-uy-2214-project-1-p0-solved/)


---

📩 **If you need this solution or have special requests:** **Email:** ankitcoding@gmail.com  
📱 **WhatsApp:** +1 419 877 7882  
📄 **Get a quote instantly using this form:** [Ask Homework Questions](https://www.ankitcodinghub.com/services/ask-homework-questions/)

*We deliver fast, professional, and affordable academic help.*

---

<h2>Description</h2>



<div class="kk-star-ratings kksr-auto kksr-align-center kksr-valign-top" data-payload="{&quot;align&quot;:&quot;center&quot;,&quot;id&quot;:&quot;124592&quot;,&quot;slug&quot;:&quot;default&quot;,&quot;valign&quot;:&quot;top&quot;,&quot;ignore&quot;:&quot;&quot;,&quot;reference&quot;:&quot;auto&quot;,&quot;class&quot;:&quot;&quot;,&quot;count&quot;:&quot;4&quot;,&quot;legendonly&quot;:&quot;&quot;,&quot;readonly&quot;:&quot;&quot;,&quot;score&quot;:&quot;5&quot;,&quot;starsonly&quot;:&quot;&quot;,&quot;best&quot;:&quot;5&quot;,&quot;gap&quot;:&quot;4&quot;,&quot;greet&quot;:&quot;Rate this product&quot;,&quot;legend&quot;:&quot;5\/5 - (4 votes)&quot;,&quot;size&quot;:&quot;24&quot;,&quot;title&quot;:&quot;CSUY2214 Project 1 P0 Solved&quot;,&quot;width&quot;:&quot;138&quot;,&quot;_legend&quot;:&quot;{score}\/{best} - ({count} {votes})&quot;,&quot;font_factor&quot;:&quot;1.25&quot;}">

<div class="kksr-stars">

<div class="kksr-stars-inactive">
            <div class="kksr-star" data-star="1" style="padding-right: 4px">


<div class="kksr-icon" style="width: 24px; height: 24px;"></div>
        </div>
            <div class="kksr-star" data-star="2" style="padding-right: 4px">


<div class="kksr-icon" style="width: 24px; height: 24px;"></div>
        </div>
            <div class="kksr-star" data-star="3" style="padding-right: 4px">


<div class="kksr-icon" style="width: 24px; height: 24px;"></div>
        </div>
            <div class="kksr-star" data-star="4" style="padding-right: 4px">


<div class="kksr-icon" style="width: 24px; height: 24px;"></div>
        </div>
            <div class="kksr-star" data-star="5" style="padding-right: 4px">


<div class="kksr-icon" style="width: 24px; height: 24px;"></div>
        </div>
    </div>

<div class="kksr-stars-active" style="width: 138px;">
            <div class="kksr-star" style="padding-right: 4px">


<div class="kksr-icon" style="width: 24px; height: 24px;"></div>
        </div>
            <div class="kksr-star" style="padding-right: 4px">


<div class="kksr-icon" style="width: 24px; height: 24px;"></div>
        </div>
            <div class="kksr-star" style="padding-right: 4px">


<div class="kksr-icon" style="width: 24px; height: 24px;"></div>
        </div>
            <div class="kksr-star" style="padding-right: 4px">


<div class="kksr-icon" style="width: 24px; height: 24px;"></div>
        </div>
            <div class="kksr-star" style="padding-right: 4px">


<div class="kksr-icon" style="width: 24px; height: 24px;"></div>
        </div>
    </div>
</div>


<div class="kksr-legend" style="font-size: 19.2px;">
            5/5 - (4 votes)    </div>
    </div>
1 Introduction

This project represents a substantive programming exercise. Like all work for this class, it is to be completed individually: any form of collaboration is prohibited, as detailed in the syllabus. This project is considered a take-home exam.

Before even reading this assignment, please read the E20 manual thoroughly. Read the provided E20 assembly language examples.

2 Assignment: Assembler

Your task is to write an E20 assembler: a program that will convert E20 assembly language into E20 machine language.

Each E20 assembly language instruction can be expressed as a 16-bit E20 machine language instruction.Assignment Project Exam Help

The rules for converting between the two forms is given in the E20 manual, particularly the chapter on the E20 instruction set.

addi $1, $2, 3 &lt;==&gt; 0010100010000011

As you can see, the first (most significant) three bits of the machine code instruction correspond to the opcode; the next three bits indicate the source register; the next three bits indicate the destination register; and the last seven bits store the immediate.

Unlike the E15, in the E20, different instructions have different formats, and your program will need to take that into account.

The purpose of your assembler is to make it easier to write programs for the E20 processor. Eventually, we will execute the machine code generated by your assembler on a simulated E20 processor.

2.1 Input

The input to your assembler will be the name of an E20 assembly language file, given on the command line. By convention, E20 assembly language files have an .s suffix.

You are provided with several examples of valid E20 assembly language files, which you can use to test your assembler.

Here is an example of an E20 assembly language program, in a file named loop2.s:

movi $1, 10 beginning:

jeq $1, $0, done addi $1, $1, -1 j beginning

done:

halt

2.2 Output

Your program should print to stdout the E20 machine code corresponding to its input.

Below is an example invocation of an assembler from Linux’s bash. In this case, we are assembling the assembly language program given above. Text in italics represents a command typed by the user.

ram[0] = 16’b0010000010001010;user@ubuntu:∼/e20$ ./asm.py loop2.s // movi $1,10

ram[1] = 16’b1100010000000010; // beginning: jeq $1,$0,done

ram[2] = 16’b0010010011111111; // addi $1,$1,-1

ram[3] = 16’b0100000000000001; // j beginning

ram[4] = 16’b0100000000000100; // done: halt

Your assembler should produce output in exactly the format shown above. That is: for each assembly language instruction, print a line of machine code, consisting of the memory address, followed by an equalsAssignment Project Exam Help

sign, followed by a 16-bit binary number in Verilog syntax. Your program is responsible for determining the memory address of each instruction. The instructions should be printed in sequential order of their address. You are not responsible for printing the value of memory addresses that are not specified by the input.

In the above listing, each line of machine code includes a comment indicating the corresponding assembly

Your solution will be checked mechanically, so it is important that your assembler produce machine code

2.3 Testing

Several example assembly code files have been provided for you. Each example file includes, in comments, the expected machine code, as well as the expected execution result. You can use these examples to verify the correctness of your assembler. However, you should not rely exclusively on these examples, as they are not sufficient to exercise every aspect of an assembler. You are therefore expected to develop your own test cases.

2.4 Starter code

3 Hints

To mark your Python file as executable, use the following command (assuming your file is named asm.py) from bash:

chmod u+x asm.py

Also make sure that the first line of the file specifies the path to the Python interpreter: it should be #!/usr/bin/python3. See the provided starter code. If you get an “exec format error,” the problem is usually that that the first line is wrong.

Alternatively, you can run the program by typing python3 asm.py.

• For this assignment, you will have to manipulate individual bits within a number. Many students are tempted to treat binary numbers as strings of “0” and “1”, however, this approach is problematic and leads to lots of bugs. We will therefore discuss bitmasks, a better approach for manipulating numbers.

First, we have to acknowledge that a binary number is just a number. All integers are stored in binary, regardless of the syntax we use to write them. There is no distinct “binary” type in your programming language. Nevertheless, we sometimes want to access or modify individual bits within an integer. The bit-twiddling operators (&amp;, |, ∼) are perfect for this.

First example: extracting certain bits Let’s say I want to get only the two least significant bits from an 8-bit number n. If n is 42, it would look like this, with the digits I want shown in green:

0 0 1 0 1 0 1 0

Assignment Project Exam Help27 26 25 24 23 22 21 20

A naive approach to solve this problem would be to convert the number into a string and extract its last two characters, then convert back into integer:

# returns 2 decimal

A better approach is to AND the number n with a value having 1s in the bit positions we want, and every other position 0. Such a value is called a bitmask. Suppose that I decide to AND n with the

bitmask 310 =112:

0 0 1 0 1 0 1 0

&amp; 0 0 0

0 0 0 1 1

0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0

The bitwise AND operator takes the logical AND of each pair of bits from its two inputs. The result is just what we wanted: 102, or 210. In other words, the bitmask shows us which bits to select from n. We can calculate this elegantly in Python like this: n &amp; 3

Equivalently, we can express the bitmask in binary, which makes our intent clearer: n &amp; 0b11

Second example: constructing values As another example: let’s say I want to construct an 8-bit number where the most significant 3 bits are the 3-bit number a, and the least significant 3 bits are the 3-bit number b, and the other bits are zero. Both a and b consist of three bits each: a2, a1, a0, and b2, b1, b0 respectively, given in most-to-least significant order. In other words, my final result should look like this:

a2 a1 a0 0 0 b2 b1 b0

27 26 25 24 23 22 21 20

A naive approach would be to convert a and b into binary strings and concatenate them with two zeros in between, then convert the result back into an integer: int(bin(a) + “00” + bin(b), 2)

I propose a better solution. The first step of my approach is to adjust the three bits of a so they are in the right place. We need to shift a five bits to the left, so that a’s most significant bit is in the 27 position of our result. In Python: a &lt;&lt; 5

Now it’s enough to combine the left-shiftedAssignment Project Exam Helpa with b in its original position. We can use bitwise OR for this:

We can now express the final result in Python:

(a &amp; 7) &lt;&lt; 5 | (b &amp; 7)

• Your assembler should never crash for any valid input. In this case, “valid input” means an E20 assembly language program conforming to the syntax described in the E20 manual. You should read the E20 manual thoroughly before you start coding to make sure you understand the syntax.

4 Rules

Language You should implement this project in Python 3 or in C++.

File names and building If you are using Python 3, you must name your program asm.py. If your solution consists of multiple source files, submit them as well. Assume that your program will be invoked by running asm.py with a filename as its parameter, using Python 3.6.

If you are using C++, you must name your program’s main source file asm.cpp. If your solution consists of multiple source files, submit them as well. Assume that your program will be built by gcc 8.3.x using the command g++ -Wall -o asm *.cpp and then run by the executable asm with a filename as its parameter. If you use C++, your program should compile cleanly (i.e. no errors or warnings) with gcc 8.3.x.

Libraries You are free to make use of all packages of the standard library of your language (that is, all libraries that are installed by default with Python 3 or C++, respectively). Do not use any additional external libraries. Do not use any OS-specific or compiler-specific extensions.

Tools Your program submission will be evaluated by running it under the GNU/Linux operating system, in particular a Debian or Ubuntu distribution. Your grade will therefore reflect the behavior of your project code when executed in such an environment. While you are welcome to develop your project under any operating system you like (such as Windows or Mac OS), you are responsible for any operating systemdependent deviations in program behavior.

Code quality You should adhere to the conventions of quality code:

• Your code should be structured to avoid needless redundancy and to enhance maintainability.

In short, your submitted code should reflect professional quality. Your code’s quality is taken into account in grading your work.

• The state of your work. Did you complete the assignment? If not, what is missing? Be specific. If your assignment is incomplete or has known bugs, I prefer that students let me know, rather than let me discover these deficiencies on my own.

• Justify your design decisions. Why did you write your program the way you did? If you feel that your design has notable strengths or weaknesses, discuss them.

Submit your work on Gradescope. Submit all source files necessary to build and run your project. Do not submit external library code. Do not submit binary executable files.
